# Introduction

This guide describes how to create a *data package*. A data package is a
portable archive containining research data together with the metadata,
supporting files and documentation needed to permit someone to (re)use the
data for a specific purpose.

The focus here is on creating data packages suitable for submission to a
public data repository to permit replication of a previous analysis and/or
secondary analyses. Such packages include the information necessary to make
the data *findable*, *accessible*, *interoperable* and *reusable*
([FAIR](https://www.go-fair.org/fair-principles/)). In particular, they (1)
include metadata that may be indexed and searched to permit researchers to
find the data; (2) organize and store data and supporting files using common,
open standards and formats that make them easy to use; and (3) include
sufficient documentation, including information on provenance and data use
requirements and restrictions, to permit researchers to reuse the data.

Importantly, while data packages are the best way to share primary research
data, *they are also useful for those who are generating data that cannot be
shared or those working with secondary data that cannot be redistributed*. A
data package provides an ideal way to organize your work locally, increasing
the efficiency and reproducibility of your own work and facilitating
collaboration among your team. In addition, a data package may be easily
modified to exclude the data themselves—possibly replacing them with links to
their sources in the case of secondary data or with synthetic data—leaving you
with a product that can then be shared in order to document your work and
permit other researchers to replicate your analysis.

The material is organized into three main sections. The first section provides
[a general overview](overview/what) of data packages, including what they are,
why they're useful, and when and how to make one. The second section is a
[step-by-step tutorial](fit) on making your first data package, with
instructions tailored to your own situation based on your answers to three
simple questions. The third section provides [additional guidance](g-and-r) on
specific topics as well as references to additional resources that may be
helpful.
